Cloud Computing: An Important
Big Data Enabler.
In our first lecture in this course,
we mentioned the cloud as one of
the two influences of
the launch of the big data era.
We called it on-demand computing, and
we said that it enables us to
compute any time any anywhere.
Simply, whenever we demand it.
In this video,
we will see how we deploy the cloud to
our benefit in our big data applications.
The main idea behind cloud computing
is to transform computing
infrastructure into a commodity.
So application developers can focus on
solving application-specific challenges
instead of trying to build
infrastructure to run on.
So how does this happen?
We can simply define
a cloud computing service,
as a rental service for computing.
You rent what you want,
and return upon usage.
Think about this, you wouldn't buy, or
even build, a truck every time you
have to move a piece of furniture.
You would simply rent.
Why build a computing
cluster when you can rent?
Especially if you are not
using it all the time.
Similarly, you can rent a car or
a bike when you are on vacation.
So you can bike anytime, anywhere.
Let's dig into this question.
What factors do you consider when you're
developing a solution for your yourself or
your client?
Should you build a hardware and
software resources yourself?
Or should you rent these
resources from the cloud?
Let's look at in-house hardware and
software resource building first.
If you choose to develop in-house
capabilities, you have to hire people and
buy hardware that suits your requirements.
These includes, but not limited to,
buying networking hardware,
storage disks, upgrading hardware
when it becomes obsolete, and so on.
Not to forget, the real estate
cost of keeping the hardware.
How do you estimate the size
of your hardware needs?
Do you make a five year estimate,
or ten year?
In today's fast changing world,
it is becoming harder to
estimate future demands.
Getting the software that fits
your needs is equally challenging.
Most software installations
require a lot of tweaking and
manual intervention that
require a lot of skills.
You will need your engineers to do this.
Compatibility issues bring
problems that are hard to foresee.
Most software is updated on a daily basis.
You must ensure you're updated.
This insures you avoid security risks and
get the best.
Over all, building your own data center or
computing power house can be expensive.
And it can be time consuming,
maintaining it is a task by itself.
This requires high initial
capital investments and
efficient operation of several
departments in your business,
which you might not have if
you are a startup company.
Most people forget to include
the cost of disposing old hardware.
Now lets see what the cloud can do for us.
Cloud's benefits are similar to what you
would get from a rental car company.
You pay for what you use,
which means a low capital investment.
You don't need to go to the dealership,
do a negotiation, get a bank loan,
get insurance.
That means quick implementation
of your projects.
Just like you don't need to buy
a car if you only need a car for
a limited use, deploying your application
on a server that is geographically
closer to your client can give you
fast service and happy customers.
For startup and small business,
it can be challenging to do so.
Cloud lets you do this with a click.
You can be sitting at a coffeeshop or your
home and starting your Internet business,
without a huge capital investment,
thanks to the cloud.
And you don't need to have a five or
ten year resource estimation plan.
Adapt to your requirements faster if
your business is growing faster than you
thought.
Cloud lets you forget about
the resource management problems and
lets you focus on your business's products
or domain expertise with minimal cost.
Just as you can rent a truck or
a convertible at a rental car company,
you can build your own
custom machine on cloud.
With a custom machine,
we mean a commodity cluster
made out of the right type of
computing nodes for your application.
You pick not only a CPU or a GPU, but
pick from a whole menu of compute,
memory and storage choices.
It's a buffet on the cloud.
Design machines to suit your application
requirements, data size and analytics.
Get what you want, and
pay for what you use.
Compare this with buying and
maintaining all combinations of
hardware that you possibly would use.
That is so costly and
not possible at all times.
Thanks to all these advantages, there
are many cloud server providers today.
And the numbers are growing.
Here we list some of the players
in the cloud computing market.
Take a moment to look at them.
You will probably recognize
some big names and
some others you have not
even heard of before.
As a summary, cloud does the heavy
lifting, so your team can extract
value from data with getting bogged
down in the infrastructure details.
Cloud provides convenient and
viable solutions for scaling your
prototype to a full fledged application.
You can leverage the experts
to handle security,
robustness, and
let them handle the technical issues.
Your team can work on
utilizing your strengths
to solve your domain specific problem.